Threat Model for Firmware Handoff
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Target of Evaluation
********************

The target of this evaluation is the `Transfer List library` implementation of
the Firmware Handoff specification. This library is a generic implementation
shared by A-class firmware components. It is used to transfer state/metadata
(e.g., Device Trees, entrypoint information) between boot stages in TF-A. This
includes the boot ROM (BL1), trusted boot firmware (BL2), and runtime EL3
firmware (BL31).

It considers the generic case of handing off from more trusted component to a
less trusted one (e.g. BL31 to BL33). It does not specifically consider the
narrower case where the handoff is confined to TF-A stages only.

Relationship to the Generic TF-A Threat Model
*********************************************

This document focuses on the Transfer List (TL) library itself and should be read in
conjunction with the :ref:`Generic Threat Model`, which covers TF-A as a whole.

Within the narrower TF-A context of BL1, BL2, and BL31, the TL producer and
consumer are typically TF-A stages that remain within the same broader TF-A
security boundary. In that context, some threats from this library-focused
analysis do not necessarily need to be considered, especially where they depend
on the TL being handed to a less-trusted stage outside TF-A.

Even so, it is safer to handle those threats in the same way. Doing so keeps
the library robust when it is reused in other handoff paths, preserves
defence-in-depth, and avoids relying on platform-specific assumptions about
which stages may consume a TL.

Assumptions
===========

The following assumptions are made about the TF-A Firmware Handoff framework
implementation in TF-A:

- Within the context of Trusted Board Boot (|TBB|), the Transfer List (TL) producer is
  considered integrity checked.
- The shared buffer containing the TL is retained until it's consumed, and all
  necessary cache/coherency operations are performed to ensure the TL is visible to
  the receiver.
- Handoff between stages is atomic; that is, there aren't incremental updates or
  partial reads.

Data Flow Diagram
=================

A generalized DFD showing information flow between a TL producer and receiver is
presented below. The dataflow DF1 in this diagram is representative of dataflows
in TF-A where Firmware Handoff might be used (e.g., ``DF4``, and ``DF5`` in the
generic model).

.. uml:: ../../resources/diagrams/plantuml/firmware_handoff_dfd.puml
  :caption: Figure 1: Generalized Firmware Handoff Data Flow Diagram

.. table:: Table 1: TF-A Data Flow Diagram Description

  +-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------+
  | Diagram Element | Description                                            |
  +=================+========================================================+
  |       DF1       | | Input data generated by a TL producer.               |
  +-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------+

Threat Assessment
=================

This analysis adopts the STRIDE framework to categorize and assess threats.

The primary asset is the sensitive data conveyed through the TL — including
platform configuration data, firmware metadata, and potentially
security-critical values exchanged between boot stages or execution
environments.

Its main security responsibility is to manage the TL safely and correctly,
ensuring that:

- Sensitive data is not corrupted, tampered with, or misrouted during processing.
- Confidential information within the TL is not exposed to unauthorized entities
  or domains.
- All data handling operations preserve integrity, confidentiality, and
  availability across trust boundaries (e.g., secure vs. non-secure world).

This includes protection against both malicious manipulation and accidental
faults, as well as validation of inputs and outputs to prevent memory corruption
or data leakage.

  +----+--------------------------------------------------------+
  | ID | Comments                                               |
  +====+========================================================+
  | 05 | | **Information leak via UART logs**                   |
  |    |                                                        |
  |    | | As in the general case, it’s common to use logging   |
  |    |   to print information about a TL to the console.      |
  |    |   Because a TL can include sensitive data, the         |
  |    |   implementation must prevent said content from being  |
  |    |   written to the console.                              |
  |    |                                                        |
  |    | | This happens when directly logging sensitive         |
  |    |   information and more subtly when logging             |
  |    |   side-channel information that can be used by an      |
  |    |   attacker to learn about sensitive information.       |
  |    |                                                        |
  |    | | Do not log the contents of Transfer Entries when     |
  |    |   logging is enabled. In production releases only      |
  |    |   print diagnostic error messages and ensure they do   |
  |    |   not contain sensitive information.                   |
  |    |                                                        |
  |    | | Disable logging by default, and ensure users         |
  |    |   explicitly opt in and configure their preferred      |
  |    |   logging setup.                                       |
  +----+--------------------------------------------------------+
  | 08 | | **Transfer List corruption via out-of-band copies**  |
  |    |                                                        |
  |    | | A producer typically performs various out-of-band    |
  |    |   memory operations on the TL. Common scenarios        |
  |    |   include authentication and loading of the platform   |
  |    |   |FDT|, and relocation of the TL from one buffer to   |
  |    |   another.                                             |
  |    |                                                        |
  |    | | Any of these operations may corrupt the TL due to    |
  |    |   copy-related bugs  (e.g., errors in ``memcpy`` or    |
  |    |   similar  memory manipulation functions).             |
  |    |                                                        |
  |    | | Verify the checksum before consuming a TL.           |
  |    |                                                        |
  |    | | Note that this mitigation does not stop an           |
  |    |   attacker from altering the data and recalculating    |
  |    |   the checksum; checksums only help detect data        |
  |    |   corruption.                                          |
  +----+--------------------------------------------------------+
  | 13 | | **Sensitive data exposure from reused TLs**          |
  |    |                                                        |
  |    | | A producer may use a TL to convey sensitive data     |
  |    |   between stages. If the same TL is reused across      |
  |    |   successive interfaces, there is a risk that          |
  |    |   sensitive data could be exposed to later consumers   |
  |    |                                                        |
  |    | | This can occur when information is not properly      |
  |    |   scrubbed during remove operations; or, when one      |
  |    |   stage relocates a TL from one location to another    |
  |    |   (e.g., on-chip SRAM to non-secure DRAM) without      |
  |    |   removing sensitive data.                             |
  |    |                                                        |
  |    | | On TE remove, provide a mechanism for scrubbing an   |
  |    |   entire transfer entry.                               |
  +----+--------------------------------------------------------+

*Copyright (c) 2025-2026, Arm Limited. All rights reserved.*

.. _Firmware Handoff: https://firmwarehandoff.github.io/firmware_handoff/main/index.html
.. _Transfer List library: https://review.trustedfirmware.org/plugins/gitiles/shared/transfer-list-library
